An evening for James Blige, presented at the Institute of Contemporary Arts at London,
February 19 1976.
James Blige, an American writer, died here in London on the 30th of July, last year.
He left a large and distinguished body of work behind him, and I am as convinced as his fellow of all his other admirers are,
that at least some of that work is similar by originality of imagination, by intelligence, and by a mysterious sense of style,
that is certain, to form a feminine part of our literary heritage.
A week before his death, he had run a large and devoted fellow of the New York,
not only here but in the United States and increasingly throughout the rest of the world, as his work became more and more widely translated.
I first got to know him, and this gives me a chance, very briefly, to introduce myself.
I work in favor and favors, and many long years ago, in the early 50s, when I first joined the firm,
I did serve a hard-rearing and secret vice, which was a Persian force, on 6th and it didn't at first frighten me that I could persuade him
to take favor in favor to embark on the transcription, but I was in bolden to share my hand when I discovered that Jesse Faber,
the founder of the firm, shared my own secret passion, and I happened to know that a friend of mine, Bruce Montgomery,
who worked in a painting, who was the director of the story, along with the student of Edmund Crispin,
he too shared that passion, and with Jeffrey Devers' enthusiastic support, I asked Crispin if he would put together for us an
anthology of science fiction stories, which he did, and the thought that I think become, in a very light, a classic anthology,
that is, F, which has been followed up by many successors, when we outnodged the F-6 settlement, eventually, 8.
And in that Boolean collection of short stories, in fact, many of my major people were to see,
I'd say in a Boolean journey, well, a long years ago, in Alberta, by a particular new name to me at that time, James Lish,
a case of conscience. So, it was through both the F-6 and the case of conscience that the name James Lish
both made an impact on my mind, and it's quite appropriate that today we should be remembering Jim Lish,
since it's due to Crispin that it happened, and Crispin, who has been very, very serious to him,
made a moment to cover it, and early this morning, he got married, and I was able to, and we could get together one morning,
and I know he's with us all the time, so it's a nice, it's a nice, it's a nice...
Well, as a publisher, that might be a little bit of a crowd about this with other books,
and the first books had turned up from a medical earsemen from home, which had helped me spellbind,
and I'm afraid very, very, very, that kind of are useless, so rather her boring meeting
when I saw a disability in an earsemen from home, we published that, and it was followed in due course,
by their whole wonderful switches and flight sequence of novels, which is in effect the greater and higher star trek.
I personally met Jim first of all in New York in the middle of the 1950s, and he made a non-forgetful impression
that more of a moon-like face with enormous glasses through which he slightly gobbled at you,
and at first he didn't make very much impression, but as you talk to him the next thing in the evening
you realize that he was an extraordinary wide originality and range and interest,
and I looked to him very much and on a later book from an English I stayed with Jim and his wife, Julie,
in an apartment near Washington, which was happily interested, but the most beautiful cast.
And very shortly after that, in fact, they decided to leave America, come down and sit here,
near Hindi, in the James Valley, and I think it's true to say Jim settled down most happily here and felt in a way,
he'd at last found his spiritual home. But of course, once they moved to him, and I saw a lot more of them,
and I realized more and more and more how very wide and the leader of it, curious,
was the range of Jimblish's interest and abilities and attainment.
Right apart from science fiction, he was a musical scholar, he was a great connoisseur of beer,
and I'm quite certain that where he still alive, he'd be an ardent campaigner for the campaign for real ale.
He was in fact a first great James Jones scholar, and unfortunately his premature death got short,
his brain refutation in that field, he regularly attended to a band of his life,
the James Jones conferences and the Congresses, and was taken with the utmost respect by the great James Jones scholars of today,
like Richard Ehrman and Thys Hart, and was making contributions towards the strange and important
field of literary scholarship. He educated as a scientist and he knew about physics and of course,
about metaphysics as well, he was learned in the works of the 1912 team,
but as a whole of what I might call near-fantasy literature, he was fascinated by black magic,
witchcraft and white magic, though I hate the word, he didn't believe any of it,
and indeed his premature death got short, there wouldn't be enough to pair the book,
in that case a great big non-fiction history of witchcraft and black magic.
Here, my only faint, plainly shadow of footnote immortality I got myself,
it's a gem, because in Black Easter, I made the parents,
you know my parents are happy to say, it's a little powerful, wise, white magician, part of Monty.
All this time, when Jim and I were living in the Thames Valley near Harpston,
I realized that Jim, who had previously suffered from cancer and the guarantee that this was pre-tropical,
was again, I'm afraid, clearly moving into the closing years of his life,
and he'd orchestrated for his last illness, was the most amiss friendliness and fortitude,
and with a nail of all, with a rare pincher to scorn be with and enjoy his talk in his company,
he was buried, and I can't imagine a more suitable place, he was buried in some cross church yard in Oxford,
and the very heart of Oxford itself, and not very far from the prison, where his great-grandfather Roger Bacon
had been incarcerated for a number of years.
It wasn't always better fitting and suitable, resting place for him, the idealized there,
and as he had buried, I thought to myself that his range of interest and his knowledge and his wisdom
and the amount of instruction and pleasure he'd given to so many people entitled him to,
to the title of Dr. Mirabilis.
Now, tonight we have a number of, I mean, and very distinguished people, many from the world of 1906,
and they're not in town, isn't that well, and they will all come here to pay tribute to Jim Bliss.
Jim Bliss is life and his works.
Now, first of all, I'm going to ask Peter Nichols of the Science Fiction Foundation,
and his students, to join me on the platform.
Now, Peter Nichols will, first of all, tell us what he remembers about Jim personally,
and after that I will introduce and say something about what was to Jim,
the most important novel of the whole lot, the one I was here with read.
That's his novel about Roger Bacon, Dr. Mirabilis.
Jim Brown, more than six months ago, which was long enough, it seems to me, to the period of mourning to be over,
and the way I understand it, we're here tonight, some of his friends and very many of his readers,
to talk about his achievements and the certain amount he was.
But not only is he tall, but he's a great real nostalgia, because his books are still very much alive.
Not many of the people here tonight have mourned him for very long, which has been an exception, in fact,
because he didn't come to New England with his work, Judy, until 1968.
And by that time, of course, he was going well established in the science fiction world,
and had been publishing his stories close to 40 years.
His first was in 1940, and it was only 19.
You can get something of the flavor of Jim's early days in science fiction, including the period when he worked as a woodland,
Scott Merritt of Slippery, as you see in New York, while reading the Domenites chapter in the book, Harry's Cartographers.
In that chapter, Domenite spends a lot of time talking about the young SF fans of writers who lived in New York in the 40s,
and founded a group called the Futurians.
It included Domenite and SF, Dan Wilhelm, Robert Mines, Fred Paul, Judy Morrill, and Sarah Cumbeth.
The very night tells it that there are rather shabby years.
A group of rather only-mated and shy young people, gauche, lonely, and in several cases prone to disastrous first marriages,
and all the things that emerges between the lines rather than in the of the night's article.
Nothing thought seems to have endured the period. I don't think they did.
And from the point of view of his development as a writer, the thought was more slow time for him,
though he had other improvements to his credit.
He went to fly a light plane, which is a fact that's still up in the library publicized about him.
He got a science degree at Lutkes.
He did very little work as a practicing scientist, and he dropped his postgraduate research to Columbia to become a writer.
There's only stories for the first ten years or so you're not very distinguished.
Jim was obviously a slow and careful loner of his craft, advancing it by imperceptible degrees,
but there only really was this to be the momentum of a juggernaut.
And only one to come together for him in the 50s helped as he was in middle with John W. Campbell's sympathetic assistance.
Now, if you look at the chronology, it's interesting.
The old key short stories, later to be collected as a novel of them come home, began to appear in 1950.
The story of Bill Nstok, later part of the novel of Titan's daughter, appeared in 1952, as did surface tension.
Later a part of Lee Searle's novel, The Sidley of Stars, which is really more of a collection of short stories,
and also the novel of Jacob Evers in that year.
A case of conscience, originally appeared in 1953, as did the story Common Time.
The short story, Beep, a very good one, might have become part of Jim's most recently published novel, The Queen Cunks of Time,
appeared in 1954, a very fine short story, A Work of Art, which features a future incarnation of his favourite composer, Richard Strauss, appeared in 1956.
What come right here for anyone familiar with Jim's work is what the most amazing of which years, those years from 1950 to 1955 were,
more especially as Jim was not a full time writer then.
Indeed, he told me he used to write in the train commuting backwards and forwards to his job in New York, that's how a case of conscience got written.
You can't help noticing too how life is here, when Jim Bacon was.
He never met a piece of good prose going to waste. Again and again, the better stories re-emerged some years later,
carefully and thoughtfully integrated into a mildew work, and often slightly rewritten in the process.
I met Jim in 1971, by which time his literary career was by no means over,
but had been badly slowed down by ear health worry, and it has to be said, a very severe writer's block.
He never quite recovered from the cancer that first afflicts him in the mid-1960s, and of course his field was all founded,
although it was another and quite different form of cancer that killed him.
But in the 70s we did see the die-out of judgement, mid-summer century.
And I think we ought to mention those briskly written Star Trek books, which Jim always referred to disparagingly as his bread and butter,
for which we're very often written with a great deal of dash and skill, and gave a lot of people a lot of pleasure.
He was certainly indirectly responsible for getting me my present job.
I saw an advertisement in The Times which read, Wanted, Administrator for Science, Fiction, Foundation.
I was convinced that it had to be a joke, or some sort of ghastly, hole-in-corner operation run by a bunch of eccentrics.
Nonetheless, I did inquire, and when I learned that James Mish was one of the prominent founders of the organization,
I instantly and enthusiastically applied.
Because Jim, along with Alfred Bester, Fred Poe, and Sue Caldwell, was one of the four writers who had most kindred my enthusiasm for SF
when I began to read it in the early 50s.
And I've had no cause other since to change my mind.
I still believe that those four men did more than any others to improve the standards of magazine SF
and to widen its range at a period of time when that kind of reform was badly needed.
I met Jim, soon after I got the job, and he became good friends.
He was rather a shy man who, because of his illness, looked a little older than he was.
Indeed, he looked rather frail.
But after a while, as Charles intimated, he found a sort of consciousness of his expression rather than his physical appearance.
He had very sharp eyes, which always looked very directly at you when he talked,
and he had a grin which appeared and disappeared with startling suddenness.
He was a serious man, but far from solemn.
He had a strong mischievous streak, which could emerge in some moods as cutting irony,
and even as a kind of wild capering like some wise fool, a jester out of Shakespeare.
Otherwise, remember him singing in a cracked voice, a Strauss Aireen.
It wasn't supposed to be sung by Clifton Mestra.
He sang at first, as it normally was sung, and then as he thought it should be sung,
in the second version, it was very much better.
There was an extraordinary performance.
A few years ago, he played the Wizard of Oz at a convention fancy dress competition,
and he was splendidly, if unexpectedly, right to the part.
He drank a fair amount, but in the several drinking sessions I had with him,
he was always very much soberer than me at the end.
In fact, his capacity was legendary.
Even Harry Harrison had to admit defeat on one occasion.
And that was only the day before Jim had to go into hospital to have half of a lung removed.
He was amazing. He smoked heavily, too.
I report these things one order to make Jim out to be some kind of wild rake, which he certainly was not.
In fact, he was very much a gentleman in the old fashioned and best sense of that word.
I really want to stress the paradox that Jim, behind what was often quite literally a smokescreen,
was a very sober man indeed. His passions were intellectual.
At a party he wasn't enjoying, he could look polite but bored for hours,
or silently drift away like one of the cats that he so much loved.
But when the talk got good, you couldn't get Jim to go to bed.
He'd talk until the sun rose again in the morning, and often did,
and less forced as usual to give up by the lesser stamina of others.
He'd talk about general relativity, James Joyce, politics, mediaeval,
scholasticism, science fiction, poetry, music, cabardages, or kings.
In fact, Jim was a wholly traditional scholar, who seldom had the opportunity to practice his scholarship,
except in his fiction, where sometimes he used to downright wickedly and inappropriately,
as in the Star Trek novel Spock Must Die, where the secret intergalactic communications code
is based with insane irrelevance and the Josian language of film becomes weak.
I'm not going to talk about Jim's science fiction. I'll move up to Mark Abner, who's coming on later,
beyond saying that he was an important pioneer.
He was one of the very few members of his generation who continuously and consciously endeavored,
with a great deal of success, to raise the intellectual standards of SF,
to sharpen its scientific accuracy, and to increase, especially,
the range and depth of its metaphysical speculation.
I will to finish by saying a few words about the book of Jim's of our most value,
Dr. Mirabilis, which he began to write in the late 50s, while he was becoming increasingly a sick man,
which was finally published after many difficulties in 1965.
My friendship with Jim dates for safety from the time of our first meeting,
when I told him that Dr. Mirabilis was my favorite of all his novels, and he was quite delighted.
I know now that I didn't know then, it was of all his books, it was the one to which he had the most passionate commitment,
and yet, it hasn't ever been very popular.
He used to complain, in fact, about the popularity of his much-unapologized short story, surface tension.
He couldn't see why it was so successful, when, for example, Dr. Mirabilis was not.
I know why, but it's very obvious.
But just the same, I think that Dr. Mirabilis is the closest thing to a great novel with Jim Mirabilis.
I actually think it is a great novel, it's not a word you use readily,
but despite its flaws, some of which are obvious, it's a great novel,
and I think that very slowly it will come to be seen as a classic historical novel.
If you don't know it, it's a fictional biography of the 13th century film-age and scientist, Roger Bacon.
As Jim says in the introduction, there's so little known about the facts of Bacon's life,
that this book is in fact a fiction, rather than a biography, but what a fiction.
The reason why it will never become very popular is that it's very difficult,
and the reason why it's difficult is also the reason why it's great.
The book undertakes a conceptual loop, unlike anything else I've ever come across in historical fiction.
Let me explain.
In the most popular kind of historical fiction, you get an adventure story,
staged in an imaginary past, with some colourful stage settings, some exotic clothes,
and perhaps some swordplay.
The psychology, however, is contemporary.
The characters behave in a way that is familiar to modern readers,
acting on letters with which the modern reader can easily identify,
and this, by the way, is usually also true of science fiction.
A much better kind of historical novel, such as those written by Arthur Bacon,
who, by the way, was among the Baron Odus, one of the two leaders, I believe,
who advised Papers to buy Dr. Neublas in the first place.
Bacon always strolled to accuracy, not only at historical events and plays in speech,
but also at the accuracy of psychology and feeling.
Duggan, for example, understood very well that it was useless trying to use later concepts of romantic love
in dealing with, say, the sexual life of the mangrove sex and king.
Which went one step further?
In Dr. Neublas, he goes deeper than questions of dress or setting,
or even psychological and physical motivation.
He tries to move the reader into understanding how, 700 years ago,
the farthest man of the age envisaged the nature of the universe.
He takes this, that is, directly into questions of philosophy and metaphysics.
And these aren't irrelevant, hard-barre questions, as he shows.
The teachings of the Church at that time and the nature of God and His creation
had a quite direct effect on what could or could not happen in everyday life.
There was a certain kind of thinking, for example,
that we would saw what we now think of as being experimental science as unnecessary or even evil,
hence the slowness of advances in medicine, for instance.
Dr. Neublas is an effect, a novel, about the creation of science.
The word science, or slentia, existed then, but it meant something quite different.
Bacon, along with Peter Peregrine and some other figures such as Don Skaters and William Mavocan,
who don't come into Bush's book because they were both born when Webster Bacon was quite an old man.
These figures didn't invent experimental science per se,
because they always existed in some form or another, sometimes called craft,
sometimes magic and sometimes alchemy.
Now, what was known to be especially Bacon was to invent a world thinking about the universe,
which gave an intellectual shape, a method of organization, and a conceptual framework,
within which experimental science could become more than a series of randomly collated facts and findings.
And it's very typical of Jim that he chose to write on the conceptual organizer rather than the experimenter.
It literally closed down that aspect of the Bacon myth that stresses his experimental work.
Indeed, he points out that a larger part of Bacon's experiments were carefully repetitive testing,
as the earlier experiments, many of them reported in Aristotle, rather than original work.
He does, however, allow that part of the myth, which emits to Bacon's invention of gunpowder,
he allows that to be possibly true.
Well, interestingly, he puts the invention down to a vision, which I think would be led to us in a minute,
after all gunpowder had been previously known in China and in the Middle East.
We all have been calling it a new discovery.
Something you may be familiar with, a third-rate book called The History of Western Philosophy, written by Bertrand Wessel.
Wessel comments,
Bacon was not to my mind so scientific as is sometimes thought.
And the instance is the prior existence of gunpowder as an example of what he means.
The myth seems stupid in this.
Dr. Moabless is an amazingly fit of scholarship in thought,
to a man with absolutely no formal trunnion philosophy, very little trunnion in the history of science,
and at the time he began writing it, no Latin.
And yet, Wessel thought the essence of Bacon's work, which Bertrand Wessel could not see.
Wessel did this in part by putting himself in command of the obscure and difficult jargon of the medieval schoolmen,
and understanding it.
He's even over to show in the most amazing single passage of the book,
that when Bacon wrote a lot, it was then called The Multiplication of Species,
he was really talking about the propagation of force.
In this work, Bacon made the conceptual leap forward which carried him up to envisaging a space-time continuum in the 13th century,
a magical framework of the universe,
in fact, a thinking which Bertrand would learn from his materialist activity.
To me, the whole book is absolutely gripping.
I granted difficulty,
but the difficulty is so much a part of the performance that nobody could surely regret it.
And in effect, this difficulty stems from the relation between the word and the thing.
It isn't only a question of vocabulary,
it's a question of the world picture which entail that vocabulary.
Wessel seduces us into the money of the man,
most notably when he gives us in full detail the own examination in which Roger Bacon wins his secular master of arts at the University of Paris.
I skip a bit here, many of them.
The only comparison I can think of for Jim's book is women golden with the inheritors,
which is also a novel about conceptual breakthrough,
and also a difficult novel,
as such novels must always be,
because the attempt is to create a truly alien mode of thought in modern language,
a language which is itself molded by the way we think.
The inheritors by golden tells of neolithic men beginning to conceptualize their universe,
in a sense what the marvelous does the same,
only though alarmingly,
in that its period is so worth being close to our own.
There is a popular and sentimental view that humanity doesn't really change much,
and that we're all subject to the same kinds of feelings, the same ways of thinking,
and have been for thousands of years,
partly true, but not wholly true.
Reading Dr. Meeabless is an admirable collective for those who take a sentimental view about the continuity of history.
It is of course SF as well as very historical fiction.
Conceptual breakthrough has always been the basic subject of SF,
and it's present as much in Dr. Meeabless's In The Seedling Stars, more so in a way.
Certainly, if the way we think changes as much in the next 700 years,
as this shows them to have changed in the last 700,
and according to Alvin Totler, the weight of change is itself accelerating,
then most science fiction set in the future is fatuously limited,
simply in creating worlds which are too much like our own.
Finally, Roger Bacon must be said is James Bish,
and therefore all the more admirable for nothing when to the heroic.
He is shown to be a fumbling, thick-skinned, and awkward man in human relations,
a slow and repetitive thinker,
a man who doesn't always realize the importance of his own ideas,
a man obsessed by partly useless activity,
such as a kind of encyclopedic finalist without opinions,
such as might be expected from an accountant rather than a great thinker.
Bacon is shown to be very much a man of his time,
whose acts of moral courage are occasionally balanced by acts of moral cowardice.
I don't mean that Roger Bacon is modeled on the author.
I do mean that the author was obviously enormously attracted by the achievements
and even the presumptive personality of Bacon,
and therefore much to his credit that he did not sentimentalize the man
whom he must surely have seen as a kind of medieval alter ego.
Anyone who knew Jim must necessarily be especially moved by his account of Roger,
because there were so many traces of the author there,
rigorously distanced throughout a trace of self-indulgence.
I first read the book many before I met Jim,
and even then I knew as to be one of the most exceptional novels I'd ever read.
Now after it was written, Jim made it retrospectively the first part of the trilogy,
whose overall title is After Such Knowledge.
Bruce himself described the theme of the trilogy as,
is the desire for secular knowledge,
let alone the acquisition and lucidate,
and misuse of the mind, and perhaps even actively evil.
Certainly this film plays a prominent role in Dock and the Rivaless,
and also in Black Easter, The Diath of Judgment and Case of Conscience,
the other books in the series.
The title After Such Knowledge comes from T. S. Eliot's poem, Juantium,
and I read the lines because they sound like wishes seen beautifully
and in a more lucid and symbolic way than he does himself,
they're from the third stanza of the poem.
After Such Knowledge, What Forgiveness?
Think now, history has many cunning passages,
contrived corridors and issues,
deceives with a whispering ambitions,
guides us by vanities.
Think now, she gives when our attention is distracted,
and what she gives, gives with such subtle confusions
that the giving famishes the craving.
Gives too late what's not belated,
or is still believed in memory only, reconsidered passion.
Gives too soon into recans what thought can be dispensed with
till the refusal propagates a fear.
Think, now the fear, no courage, serves us.
Thus the musings stone-sad and ironical of T. S. Eliot's Old Man.
There are thoughts that can readily be found in much of Bush also,
but my own theory is that he thought the girl in yours worth the candle.
He knew the dangers of the acquisition of knowledge,
the guilt that goes evading the apple, but he loved it anyway.
Roger Bacon dreams at one point, which would be led to,
of modern war, of Armageddon.
And he understands the vision as a possible result of his work,
but the sheer intellectual passion and devotion,
even the love with which he throws himself into the law,
and the need to spot the dangers,
shows clearly enough that the emotional commitment of the orphan married.
Even if he was intimately,
and he was placing his status as quickly as possible away from knowledge,
and back to the innocent joys of the original garden,
we might have shown the fear of man,
that Bishop Mast was ready to make the best of it,
to risk that macphugiveness, which in his case, of course,
is only meddling in God.
And that's most of all.
I'd like to say this is rather an academic sort of introduction for you,
but I don't apologise because he himself
was primarily an academic sort of man in the very best sense.
He never talks down or let down.
He is seen and realized that the reader or listener
would be as intelligent as himself.
I appreciated the compliment as his friend,
and I'm sure you already did too, whether it was his friends or readers.
I shouldn't distinguish between friends and readers.
I thought myself to be his friend before I'd run with him,
and I know that many others thought the same.
Now I understand that we'll read the next track from Duncan O'Robble this.
All right.
Roger Bacon, still a young man,
but already making a name for himself,
goes to Paris University in the hope of being allowed to teach
our aesthetic philosophy then.
This, of course, is Paris in the 13th century.
A mixture of filth and finery, reason and bigotry,
the whole of disease and disputation scholars.
University is burdened with ages-old philosophies,
aimlessly re-quoted and reinterpreted by commentators.
In this unlikely place, Bacon discovers a group of proto-scientists,
and attends one of their clandestine alchemical matinees.
However, Matamars, Maters, go awry,
and most of those persons are rendered unconscious by the fumes from one of the experiments.
Bacon eventually attends with him that night, still feeling ill,
and begins to reread his copy of The Secret of Secrets,
a letter to Alexander the Great from his teacher, Aristotle.
In it, are descriptions of the means whereby certain elements may be attained,
including personal, political, and military power.
What we would recognize as formulae.
Bacon reflects on what he has read,
and gradually the voice of his inner self begins to debate with him,
that prefaces one of the major crises in his life.
Yet these matters, and the most secret of secrets of this kind,
have always hidden from the rank and file of philosophers,
and particularly so often, then began to abuse science,
telling to evil what God granted in full measure for the safety and advantage of man.
Until he should strive that the wonderful and ineffable utility
and splendor of experimental science may appear,
and the pathway of a seantier universalist be again opened.
And that's by being,
Downhole!
Lord, you shouted.
He swallowed and resumed his perch on the stool.
What a doubt, dower, he said quietly.
I demand that answer, in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord.
For a while there was no answer,
and there had been noted within the darkness beyond the candle flame
there were strange and lawless patches of color,
pulsing and delusive.
Moreover, his givingness was worse.
Was that still a sweet vitriol,
or was he in truth working too long as willing?
I am the raven of Elias.
That is blasphemous and untrue.
Hacharski, tell me who thou art.
I am the man.
What man is this?
Tell me thy signification, else I'll exorcise thee straight.
Thou art the man.
Speak on.
Thou art the man shall bring back into the world the seantier universalist.
Thou shalt make a written edifice unto the glory of thy Lord.
All the help I shall give thee, that be required.
How?
As food brought unto Elias in the desert,
thy nativeness shall touch heaven,
and on its proudly written knowledge is power.
These cadences were putting into sleep.
Almost he failed to see the trap,
the self-same trap into which the builders of Babel had fallen.
Nay, moral philosophy is the pinnacle
for the ways nothing can touch heaven.
How dost thou know, O Jehovah's...
For by the light of knowledge the Church of God is governed.
The common work for the faithful is regulated.
The conversion of unbelievers is secured,
and those who persist in their malice
can be held in check by the excellence of knowledge.
So that they may be driven off from the borders of the Church
in a better way than by the shedding of Christian blood.
And this is the meaning of that saying, knowledge is power.
All matters requiring the guidance of knowledge
are reduced to these four heads,
and no more, the self-same.
It is strange and horrifying to hear a discourse
when these matters weighty and unusual
in that same, remote, bodyless, tumours wine.
So it's saying only to an ear itself,
the pages of the secrets of secrets wavered
and blared before him, and he closed the book.
He could think of nothing else to ask.
But, he was suspended in ecstasy of disbelief.
In that emptiness, the self sang suddenly.
Time is...
Yes, Lord Jesus,
it is a subject of notion,
but I don't.
Time was...
the same was self.
behind the voice of music,
what you seem to hear in this mirroring of echoes.
He's just a very bad guy, he used to be a baby,
he said, stunning.
But the words came forth,
over the middle slurred.
Where I know that time is single and linear,
and given up one age belonging to all ages.
This is the necessary conclusion,
doubted by no one skilled his philosophy.
No easy to pose to sacred writers,
that there's an adopter,
but the agreement with every one,
who tries to find his vaccine with me?
Who?
The moment home,
points to the candle flame,
but doubt fell down,
like a fisherman's float,
lure the bubbles.
When the self spoke again,
its distant sign of displace was as terrible
as the strokes of a gong of bars.
Time is past!
The candle went out.
When from the darkness,
their loads rank upon rank
of armored men with thousand faces,
and the faces were sheep,
and the faces of demons too bright
in their chain to look upon,
masked under the invisible sun,
passing in their thousands as men
who marched to the last great engagement.
And with them, thousands on horseback,
and more unanimals not yet seen in the world,
and many bearing strange engines,
and that their heads was anti-Christ,
yet in a trotling,
always terrible post-tranquil,
so that each man was no bigger
than a grain of millet,
and that even this Emmett army
was turned out of sight,
as an image vanishes when the glass is turned,
and north left behind,
for the white cats of some torrent,
stretching to the far horizon,
as if one looked in vain
across a straight up coming invader.
Things moved like levires
beneath the waters,
with the rangeens,
and the women in them,
and the dragons in the air
like the dragons of the Ethiopians,
yet there were men in them,
and there were males under the earth,
and men were the men,
all in men with terrible circumstances,
and one wearing a cow cane
and stoned upon a headlamp
about the white waters,
and how about such glasses
that mirrors were necessary
to show forth these things,
and the mirrors turned,
and there across the white waters
was the self-sane army
both close again,
yet every now, yet now,
every man was as great as a giant
across that distance,
so that every link in the mail
could be counted,
and the mirrors moved,
and the head of him,
the cowl, appeared in the air
above the army,
greater than any of they,
and verming as it were,
the flowers said a furnace,
yet was not there,
and many of those giants
threw down their engines
at war and fled,
yet the host came on,
and he made in the air
certain compositions
which a man might know
only by smelling them,
or not at all.
But on came that inexhaustible host,
and that their head was anti-Christ,
and he and the cowl
held out his hand
under the white waters,
and he was farming
with certain crystals
like salt painter
for the Dunheap,
and he wrapped the crystals
in a scrap of parchment
without any writing on it,
and cast it into the wind
and crying,
whoop-a-roop-a-roop-a-roop-a-roop-a-roop-a-roop-a-roop,
come here to us,
more like a do-me-up,
hip-side a cop-son,
where I told that army
was seen to fall
in a single flash of lightning,
and when the roar was such sharp
thunder that the cowl flew
from the skull of him
that it cried out,
and he fell dwindling away
to nothing like an ever-bamming lamp
cast into the sea.
After that, for a long time,
it was darkness and silence,
but it was not the nothingness
of sleep in which the consciousness
of time itself was obliterated.
So, in an instant,
the night is gone
that wakeful men could rise full.
Time passed,
but what had been smarted
and that sable silence
could not be known,
nor words spoken reached the ears,
nor any touch penetrated.
Then he mourned,
and heard,
and confused glint past
before his closed glids.
And while it was gone,
in any of the darkness,
he almost awoke,
drawing a breath for me to discover
that he could hardly breathe,
and when he was soaked in sweat,
someone mourned near him,
and there was an answer.
He understood neither.
Now, however,
he could fall into truth.
Now, while at Magadladen,
and Richard Cutter,
drawn me here on the platform,
where there was a short musical interval,
that reminded us of Jim's very great devotion to music,
and his great interest in music,
which was of very scholarly interest.
First of all,
we play a short extract
from a very rarely performed opera
by Bavitra Strauss,
the Egyptian heroine,
which was Jim's favorite opera.
And after that,
there will be a record
which is of even greater rarity,
and of very considerable personal interest.
The film is a short film
where the film was shot in the city of Magadladen,
and it was shot in the city of Magadladen,
In the 1940s, James Blosch and some friends
started to build a small record company,
Van Ralf Records,
and this record, the one they're going to hear now,
is the very first record they ever made.
It's the Tecateur of Guatemala
by a son, Son Wilkins, tellin',
and the player needs to go to Munich.
The Tecateur of Guatemala
Now, not without that,
I think we should kind of joint me.
Now, now, now, I'm going to talk principally
about Jim Beasch as a scientist
and Richard Kuyper,
maybe for one of his best men
and Mr Mark Woodworks,
one that I've referred to
in my introduction, a case of conscience.
Well, we just, people,
talk slightly, it's rather more mixed than that.
James Bush had many of the characteristics of the writers who appeared in the 40s and
in the early 50s and changed the nature of science fiction.
Like many of the best of them, he had received a scientific education and no science fiction
writer had a greater respect for what Jim called the science in science fiction.
He produced his cultural knowledge in his character, what is sometimes called hard and sapphire dealers.
He was good at inventing credible hardware such as Ice 4, which was used in the building of the
Bridge on Jupiter in the National House Stars.
And the sun material was used for the bones of swimming in the Seeding Program.
It was in Seeding Program also, however, he gave the word panterky to indicate an alternative
strategy to what Jack Williamson had called much earlier terraforming.
Many of his SF fictions were derived from what he called the Black and Dark Equations,
which had been fictionally justified in the building of the Jupiter Bridge and which led to the construction of the Spindig.
Amazing. Perhaps the most famous, or one of the most famous, of the fictional interstellar
drives and the chief narrative power in the what can't be known as the Settles in Flight series.
The Black and Dark form of it comes up again and again.
It is the basis of the development of BSP in Jack of Eagles and the direct communicator for talking
about interstellar distances was one of numerous spin-offs from the original equation.
But there is much more to a Jim Bresch than this.
In him, this respect for the facts and possibilities of science is part of a broader passion for
intellectual knowledge and sometimes of a search for ultimate truth.
This preoccupation appears again and again in the fiction.
To up the end of his most popular story, Selfistension, the dying pirate says,
there is nothing that knowledge cannot do.
In Earthman Come Home, John Malfee says to the assembled Oakley Moors,
that's the priceless coin, gentlemen, the universal coin, human knowledge.
And then in Dr. Milagales, he found what he'd opened on his deathbed,
asking God to forgive him for having pursued power and intellectual truth instead of only the latter.
And then in Black Easter, the protagonist has sacrificed everything in pursuit of knowledge.
This concern with intellectual truth is closely linked with the problem of moral choice in the existence of evil.
The question is dramatized in the Jesuit intelligence of Willis Sanchez,
the scientist priest in the case of conscience.
In Jim's system of thought, in the scarring, to give us one of his favorite words,
it wasn't merely justifiable if it was necessary sometimes to help people who offended the ghosts,
the intellectual and the moral code.
John Malfee said, the first freedom is freedom to hope.
In a personal letter from Jim, one of the matters, he described John Malfee as one of his favorite characters.
The people who were hated often appeared as snakes.
In early technology, in the model of life of the stars, the most hated figure is Frank Loetz,
the manager of the most evil of the tramp cities.
But instead of hearing that, he has no more feeling than a snake.
And then in the later technology, in the model of case of conscience,
it seems that the product of the fertilized egg may return to the seamless planet of Lycia
and begin to play the role of the first of all snakes.
I said a very late with Jim on one of those famous mornings,
and it is currently the characteristics of various kinds of snakes,
happily without naming any names.
The catalog of snake-like furlings seemed to be almost interminable.
Now, I almost ended down all this,
who was cramping down some little pretty nipples in a nearby corner.
I said almost.
I thought that I supposed was the traditional Christian bill,
that one should hate the same and not the same.
And I tried to support my arguments,
but I rather badly remembered the quotation from O'Feller.
Jim said,
If O'Feller could support my case better if I used a different text,
and it promptly delivered a long and full quotation in Italian.
When he finished, I asked him what it was.
The time it was from Baruto's libretto, for Verdi's Attello,
and it has been a superior to the Shakespearean verses, from which it was derived.
I thought somewhat cut down,
particularly as I knew Jim as Pranley, Stiles and Jim and Opperman.
I noted that a considerable time after this,
I reviewed some of Jim's short stories for the fanzine cypher.
I said, as a tribute to Jim's art,
that one couldn't help hating the people,
who were responsible for the evil happenings in such stories as tomb tappel.
I said to Friendly that Fran Lassif and Jim
told my attention that evening, some years before,
and pointing out that I had changed sides, since I last discussed it.
Things like this made Jim a very formidable friend.
It was alarming when he indicated,
in a few casual words, that he was totally master of a complete field of knowledge,
which one had hitherto been scarcely aware of.
It was even more alarming when he indicated in a few more words,
that he considered this obscure field of knowledge
to be helpful and relevant to whatever it was he was trying to talk to him about.
I remember the first British Melfed Conference.
Jim came in with a well-worn, over-staffed tashac case.
I imagined that it was crammed on manuscripts
of Jim's Athlean night notes upon them.
He sat there with the felt surgical scar on his neck.
The gin and tonic held him in hand.
The tending so much, you could hear the eyes clippin' against the glass.
He would sit out on the other hand,
and would be drew continuously by the section of his cheeks.
And that slightly wrapped his eyes,
it was so terrible intent, and so terribly sincere,
and so terribly honest.
I'm not thinking that if a special part of heaven was set aside
for science fiction people,
then Jim would have a seat around at the very top.
He'd be served at the side,
because he'd put the fuel of gold into more science fiction letters
than any man would ever do.
Jim won't seem to act on a mostly quote, I think, tupperism.
Shteghe, and it's probably long,
here's the lithium,
hands over the gift that he's promised to give to the priest.
It was only a short journey to the clearing,
where the mighty spindle of the ship
stood nearly to weave its way
back through the genodesics of deep space
to the sun that shone on Peru.
There was even some sunlight here,
piercing now and then through low scudding clouds,
which is a delay in the morning,
and we'd begin again soon enough.
The baggage went on board,
so we lay and we had any fuss.
Shteghe, the specimen, the poem, the tapes, the special reports,
the recording, the sample cases, the slide boxes, the variants,
the type cultures, the press, the plants, the animal cages,
the tubes of soil with chunks of ore,
the lithium manuscripts in their atmospheres of helium.
Everything was lifted recklessly by the cranes and swung inside.
Our grandstee went up the creek still up first.
We'd replay this following him, a barracks bag,
slung over one shoulder.
On the ground, Clevo was stirring in some last minute bit of beer,
something that seemed to require delicate, almost reverent,
begging down before the cranes could be allowed to take it
in their indifferent grip.
Clevo was politically motherly about his electronic operations.
Leith Sanchez took advantage of the delay
to look around once more at the more margins of the forest.
At once, he saw Shteghe.
The lithium was standing at the entrance to the path
the earth and the sea served to take him through the city
to reach the ship.
He was carrying something.
Clevo swore under his breath
and undid something he had just done to do it in another way.
Leith Sanchez raised his hand.
Immediately, Shteghe walked toward the ship.
He looked low through his strides,
which nevertheless seemed almost leisurely.
I wish you a good journey, the lithium saying,
whatever you may go.
I wish all soldiers may lead back to this world of some future time.
I have brought you a gift that I sought before to give you,
if the moment is now appropriate.
Clevo had straightened up and was now growing up suspiciously at the lithium.
He said he did not understand the language.
He ran over to find anything to which he could object.
He simply stood there and radiated his unwelcomeness.
Thank you, Leith Sanchez said.
This creature of Satan made him miserable all over again,
making him feel he was tired being alone.
But how could Shteghe learn?
The lithium was holding out to the small vars,
sealed at the top, and provided the two jiffy-looping handles.
The greenery-prostlum in which it had been made
still carried inside it under the glaze, the fire, which had formed it.
It was irresistible, alive, with man-cruising festoons,
and cruelly-wound bones, and the foam of a hole
which had made any quarter of grease that bound in his tray, being shown.
If you see it beautifully, you can imagine, no, this was it too.
Certainly, one could not make a lamp of it,
or feed it with leftover bits and put it in the refrigerator,
besides it would take up too much space.
This is the gift, Steghe said.
It is the finest container yet to come out of Kharadesh to Kirtan.
The material of which it is made
includes traces of every element to be found in lithium,
even including iron.
And thus, as you see, it shows the colors of every shade of emotion and of thought.
On earth, it will tell earthmen much of lithium.
You will be unable to analyze it, which Steghe said.
It is too perfect to destroy, too perfect even to open.
Ah, but we wish you to open it.
Steghe said, for it contains our other gift.
Another gift?
Yes, and the more important one.
It is a fertilized living egg of our species.
Take it with you, while the time in each earth is well hatched,
and when you're ready to blow up the human world's tray
in a marvelous world, the container is the gift of all of us.
But the child inside is my gift, for it is my child.
Appalled, Ruth Stancher took the ground and crumbled hands of those
who expected it to explode as indeed he did.
It shook with subdued flame in his grip.
Goodbye, Steghe said.
The child and walked away, back towards the entrance to path,
clinging to what Steghe showed in his eyes.
Now, what was there a lot about the food, to be said?
That snake couldn't have made a bigger thing out of it,
he'd been handing it over on a platter,
and all the time it was only a jet?
Ruth Stancher did not answer.
He could not have spoken even to himself.
He turned away and began to serve the kids,
craving the vows carefully in one ear though.
It was not the gift he had hoped to bring into the whole city
to the grand indulgence of all mankind,
no, but it was all he had.
While he was still coming, a shadow passed rapidly over the whole,
King Louis's last crate being worn amoth with the whole by a crane.
When he was in the oar lock,
a rising wind of the ship's neons generated the lantern.
A man's shadow's sunlight was cast ahead of him,
he could not his shadow on his deck.
After a moment, a second shadow overlaid and blurred his own,
cleavered, when the light dimmed and went out.
The air-locked door slammed.
John Bernard and Josephine Saxton are coming on the platform now.
One of John's most intense and private passions was for Petrie,
not only the Petrie of other people, but his own Petrie.
Though it's not very long ago, man,
if you do get Petrie himself and some of it was published,
all over the American magazines, most came from magazines,
but a few times from some of the prestigious academic reviews.
John Bernard was a person with LeBart James Blish himself,
and his only name was Oven,
and then he would be with Petrie and James Blish.
It is perhaps not as widely recognized among his leadership
as it should be that as well as a masterly writer prose,
the last from the last James Blish,
apparently a considerable range and power
was a compact, condensed and highly personal approach.
I was, as Charles has just said,
little intending to preface this short reading
with some comments of my own,
but I feel it is best that this little known aspect
of James's work speak on its own behalf.
I have been fortunate in being given by Judith Blish
a collection of his poems which she assures me
will now be his own great favorites.
This is called Orcs in Phoenix.
Singly quoted, lack-stopping mother of unicorns,
lifting your helix-scrooge's savers from the waterless,
worthy poise, bleeped and shy to haunt the remote empty quarter,
virgin in abe, illusive, gentle of legend,
antelope horse of sweet and measureless dream
we have trapped you now in our industrial desert.
Outside your home of toll
and imprisoned zodiac ministers breathe poison
in the mid-dirt-classy drops,
the new tombs of St. Maddoine Sully
are waiting in earthquake.
We, the new love of tombs,
stare and fall to believe
our girls' lackless need of the far-from-heaven giggle
to see you wonder and laugh at your story.
You who shall shake your beauty forever in the protection.
This, called Son of the Eye,
includes some of the most famous anagrams in all of history,
those in which Galileo confuses his discoveries
concerning the natures of the planets.
Son of the Eye.
How can a tae-ran-ne, ian, first-reli, guinta
or ian?
Women then, forgive me,
make sure, though those captures are
and the streets are fostered are
my body's world-line stardust yours,
excelsiating the fabulous 11th companion of Ganymede
sneaking the sit from the chas.
All of us, lete, covite,
I understood that was,
at the stall of its geodesic,
not flinging before,
except in phrase where
he be much removed,
is not, nor am I, much afraid.
In your room, now, come over,
if I ask you, that I talk mountain.
It is my star's removing-tot.
I am stalled as old as Ireland,
as green as Comet's hair,
caught from the Jovian shoulder,
parametric to his customary need.
The placer does not change.
He is quick, subtone, quicker,
and the cusps of the darker square.
Forgive me, I shake my name and hope.
Not changing the word,
quintiae, figuras, and latero,
nato, ha-mol, said Alice.
This is called theory of the right action.
The poem and twisted consciousness
is known with the mason's square,
and both its journey armed
to be taken through each sentence
with a lifted lead.
The drawing where she is the thing done,
the indifusible stone joined at the carpenter,
whose shop is drawn by toky loss of blood.
That does be true in our memory.
Stick heart,
plays no toll,
if it were to hold the stone,
and also the oil, but just coming
but it was in the crowd,
it shied its hat,
and so it speak in her ear to
mutter out the clarion-headed hunt,
freight it, and wear a little spear,
in which it was just entered
a lice of green salt.
And this is called,
probably this is also its first line.
Tabby, there,
saw this up,
his thirsty sickness punished.
With such cheer,
he watched the dripping tar
tick in the way,
as though an actor whipped,
that was anew,
the dead, not tragic,
in the tear that we are,
spoken by fruit affairs,
and so that time issues
in the hands that once had loved.
And death,
the open word,
with planets to destroy,
after a loop,
so generous of gold and miserly of water.
And the beef-coast bridge,
father of God's,
dream of swords,
pure of a silver child,
content to yield up his small joy.
And as a particular favor,
I have asked the chairman
to move me to add,
to be of use for Columbus, by Jim,
something which I did not know
until he was no longer with us,
he's very dearly loved.
And it sounds somewhat of what I would like to say,
but I feel it better,
simply, to read you,
the name for the maker,
for whom you've done far.
With that,
he lay loose and gladness,
and tublif,
now with great sickness,
and favorite with enmity,
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
My presence here is all vain,
Larry, this false world is perthensitary,
that flesh is brackled,
a fiend is sleeved.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
The state of man does change,
and very no sound,
no sick, no blood, no sorrow,
no dust, and merry no look today.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
No state, and earth, to stand is sicker.
As would be when we were just the whichers,
and we missed this world's vanity.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
And to that death go so,
and this state is princess,
prelate, and peristate,
with rich and poor all at all degree.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
It takes the nights into the field,
and I am it under her own shield.
Victor deals that armily.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
That strong unmasked filter,
and takes on another's breast,
so come the baby full of the enmity.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
He takes the champion in the store,
and the captain close it in the tower,
the lady in power full of beauty.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
This bear is no lord for his presence,
nor clack for his intelligence,
his office bright may no man be.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
At magicians and astrologers,
retards, magicians, and theologians,
then help this no concluciancy.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
In merees and in his practitioners,
leeches, surgeons, and physicians,
the self for dead may not simply.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
In seeing that knackers among the lay,
place here the pageants sing words to grave,
spares his noct there fatality.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
Then he must roam her brother chain,
he will not let me live alone.
Of course, I man his next baby.
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
Since for the bed-dive,
only this man bestest that we
for death dispel after our death,
but if may we,
Tim of Mott is controlled by me.
Incomprehensibly,
our ancestors preferred
future factions of the evolution.
They were inbound
wrapped in sheets of lead
to a stork in coffins and a bolt.
When nighttime came,
I went to grow into a stork,
a leaf, a flower,
and a game of corn.
Thank you, James Blige.
Greater than his axe,
to me is another thing,
is greater than his sword, a glint,
so some of the works,
which James Blige left behind
in the London death,
and which are, as yet, unopened.
A few months before his death,
about ten months,
so to remember,
James Blige asked me
to collaborate on another thing.
It was a science fiction novel,
and he's been nursing the idea
for about a year.
After consideration,
about a minute,
I can sense it.
James was not only a writer,
he was a mixed-rude teacher and critic,
and I thought well enough
it was his mind to not show me it.
He thought well enough was my work
to believe that we could
make a great success of the project,
with enthusiasm, our work began.
This evening, I'm about to meet
James Shortpeace, his hero,
engaged to me, to ask what I thought of it.
This is a talk of the message.
I've chosen it because it was a typical piece of hair
I've had to burn myself.
Those who knew the idea
would be surprised, or so he felt.
A great joke, which we should,
with the certainty,
with our universe, with another guest,
which bits have been written by Richard Stock.
I was, actually,
this is a little infrastructure,
you see, I was this evening
to a good work from James Joyce.
I had read other things to James Bliss on occasion,
and he said that he loved to listen to my voice
because of, I presume, what he imagined
to be its most accent.
I practiced reading the famous
Anna Livia passage in a Welsh accent,
and somehow it left me a sense of meaning.
So that is why I show,
I feel this little reading of a work
which I'm left to complete by myself, perhaps.
From the plots, plans, outlines,
discussions, and ideas
which so excited our imagination
in the blatant sense,
before I fully realised that I would be less
if you were to go for this jargon
literally on my own trip.
There's a quote at the beginning
of this particular little chapter.
The great spirit that moves the world
is that long ago,
you could not possibly have lived as long as this.
It's a quote from the most American Indian
by far, of course.
Soon, you did not know what you had expected
and used the power to the vessel to be like,
but you were none of us to take you back
by the simplicity of this one.
Soon, you came to the other transpire
to a drop concerning two airbeds side by side.
Your power source was visible,
no other ammunition,
even the entrance pro-touch fans without guidance.
Only this was clearly heard of her.
The airbeds, too, became almost impossible to see
in the light from the bare cabin outside.
There was a faint difference in the world index of reflection
and that was all.
The pilot went on one, and when she did,
I could have stretched the deck by real stress and anchors.
He laid on the side on the other,
with his not-touching self.
Proud of the car works, she asked him.
He looked surprised.
After a projection, he said,
what else?
She could think of all kinds of...
Then I thought that he thought leaving the body behind.
Such would be infactical.
He felt silent, and the pilot was doing nothing but over.
Fortunately, she already knew why intercoms is trouble,
as opposed to interstellar, had survived the talk.
It was because of the nation on Titan,
which represented another much-public,
which desired most extreme physical separation
from all other enclosures.
The Titanianism was nothing of an exchange
managed by the ideal.
With an exchange for a few supplies,
they could not manufacture on their giant moon
with towering, sphincter, personal contracts.
Their philosophy, which was called stochasticism,
held that already things happened at random,
and which was only a feature of entropy,
that most events are undesirable.
Therefore, they chose to hold many of the events
in their lives to a minimum,
and to a relatively structure of few they had to allow.
It was with the evening in their touch with them
that the limited research into the Durban system had evolved,
almost casually, by curiosity as an opportunity.
How long would the journey take, she said, eventually?
The question is unreal.
The pilot closed his eyes and print to fell into deep relaxation,
leaving the profound but with great slowness.
After three moments, a soft violet light
grew around his crown.
At first, she wasn't sure of this,
but at the same time, a light with same color
ensured the black and the victor
got moving both in partially.
However, his aura was both more intense
and more localized in the human motion.
It blended blood, jewelry and foreground white around his eyes,
and then blue up half his head began to go blue.
Now, a green, green cloak,
seething into yellow around his chest and crown,
and into orange, all his lips were between his arms and hands.
His legs began to radiate profound redness,
and at last he speak to this brown-haired female book.
Clearly, this radiance had to become from within him.
They could see the eye that was rest upon him,
the knowingness they were arriving from the end manifest.
She realized suddenly that he was frozen clear of the orbit.
Oh, many people could let it say that was well known,
though she had never before seen anyone do it.
That, a grandmum had said,
was because we all have the gift,
we are just enticed to use it.
Now, as it seems obvious here,
but it did explain why I had not anchored himself.
Was this what was called freefall?
She did not feel that she herself was falling.
Completed, they all had become arduous,
though she could not actually sense anything.
Now, not factually, there seemed to be a soft warmth inside her,
just under her necklace.
The skin of the vessel would make these chairs as safe as possible.
Clearly, though she could see the pilot as well as before
through his rainbow-caucas,
she could no longer see a tall outside the ship,
though its investiture was a plumber of the tool,
no matter any sensation of motion.
After a timeless, indefinite period,
the two others since the third of Angler gone,
and the rest of the two other to the way they had been is on,
and with them the sensation of shoes felling
which she regretted without knowing why.
But she had no time to think about it,
for over her head, in her very face,
the great rainbow storm that was due
to raise down in silence.
Well, it was certainly more interesting
the ways of traveling and being squashed
into a harsher spatial tool.
It was then to her, in a perfect benefit,
that the end manifest could not be persuaded
to transmit anything more complex than small,
dissociated molecules.
Crossing over those hundreds of millions of miles
that way, she had to, could be even gellered
and arrived in an underground car.
The landscape outside was stormy,
and the rock would be like the ferns of the world,
except that there was no dust.
So that the light was violent and brilliant,
the shadows were ink-black,
and there was a sharp horizon.
She understood that that was because there is no air.
Why then were the rocks in here
every bit as well,
what existed here to a world first?
We hope that evening wouldn't be complete
without a brief reminder of two great interests
of James Gersh,
which have both been referred to before this evening.
The first of theirs is the work of James Dright.
Well, since, as you've heard,
Josephine Taksson felt she must decline
the responsibility of reading James Gersh,
who better than James Gersh?
So we're going to have a brief extract
from that famous recording of Gersh
leading the end of Anna Liddy up to Arabelle.
Subdu your naish, a hungry creature.
What is it that a black body grows?
And that Dwyer Gray asks them for our cauldrons.
And you mean them tarpy and limes and Gregory?
I mean my punk oil, the four of them, and the roar of them.
The drapes, that's three on the list.
And old Johnny will do the along with them.
Is that the true big pleasure of the aunt?
Far, far.
What if I were both coasting my education
or a glow I behold within a hedge
for my gary to come back to the innu?
Where to the honey of the moon, Lord?
Die is little eat, die.
We see that wonder in your eyes.
We'll meet again, we'll part once more.
The spot I'll sleep if we are real fine.
My chaq shines high where the blue necks upset.
Forgive me quick, I'm going.
Go die.
And you pluck your match, project me not.
You're even Lord.
So safe to jog with them.
My sight of swimming ticker only by the shabbos for this place.
I saw them, smoldering her by and away, my van away,
totally out to black mine.
Oh, I bet she was the queer-owns,
the ocean-y-ho, the analytical thinker-toes.
And sure she was the queer-own dance-toot,
the old deathly dumpling,
the sister father of fingers and dracogills.
Daffodil and Gamble, you are no gangsters.
How did he seven dimes to wavin'
and every dimes had of seven crutches?
And every crutch had of seven hues?
And each you had a different crime?
Stunts for me and suffer for you?
And the doctors billed for George on?
Before, before, the marriage is market's cheap,
I fell on earth like any intrudin' capitalist even.
And their pink, illumin'y creamy burdening,
and their precious Indian nose
that had naked mass who was despised,
then all the laws was fair,
to tell them land,
teams of times and happy returns
was the same in you.
All the ego was here at all,
and the laws,
living in pure abundance to be.
Not many sting would cite the ex-place,
but how much decorators make each one in person
blabbing with that nature in the east collide,
out in your sunscreen to the Arabian,
your Koscivi's eblin' insist,
he had backcourt paps on him,
paps-lums, croissants,
who know,
things of his bosom,
not say this,
and who,
who,
that all known,
what,
is chittering doctors of?
What?
I'm here with the doctors of,
the chittering doctors of,
chittering that seed-nice-backed-talk,
or are we not gone a-home,
back-torn-below-own,
can't hear the back-of-back
all the listening-offers of?
Oh, tough-taker,
white-gloose won't lose,
I feel at all as Yander Allen,
a ten-ton-duck-sharmershimp,
all living as doctors of,
dark-hawks of Europe,
my whole head-horned,
I feel as heavy as Yander Stone,
telling me of Sharm in the Sharm,
who knows Sharm in Sharm,
the living sons and doctors of,
night-night,
family-family, family-own,
family-family, family-family,
the family-telling-back-of-out,
now you know.
I'm not that way confused yet,
no, James Blush,
and a very different one.
We are moving northwards from Dublin in the District,
to Belfast in the Lagon,
in fact, we're moving to Bob Shaw,
one of the most distinguished
of our science fiction writers here in this country,
and he's going to talk about beer.
I don't know if anybody realizes it,
but when Judy was master-mining,
it's easy when we're hopping together,
she assigned different tasks to different people,
and she told me I was to speak about beer,
and I'm wondering why I was chosen for this particular job.
It may have been because a couple of years ago
at a convention, I was seen
standing holding a pint of beer,
but I'd like to hasten to add
that this beer didn't belong to me,
I was mining it for somebody else.
In fact, it belonged to Harry Harrison,
who had just stepped upstairs to write a novel.
Actually, the subject isn't in a good mood to Jim,
as we all know,
and I first met him, and I expected him to be
a very grim, very serious type of person in all levels,
and he was on the get-in,
and cropped up a lot in his work.
I mean, I presumed he'd find such a man
actually set to Jim.
Don't worry about on the get-in,
this won't be the end of the world.
In fact, there was a long, long connection
to SF fighters and beer.
It's fairly unobtrusive,
but thinking back on it,
it's done like this gracefully,
but then,
sadly, of course,
introduced beer to Mars in his books.
Well, Beer-Kynes,
he complained a lot about Asmone
stirring the desert with beer-Kynes,
and spoiled the literary ancient fragile tempest,
and then in science fiction family in the 50s,
I seen the member, there was actually a project
to build a pile of beer-Kynes
which had expanded right up to a moon.
I'm talking about Jim,
he liked beer,
and he brought bottles of beer along
from the conventions,
carefully chosen,
but then it said a lot
for causing political paces
that he even learned to like English pub beer,
and this is quite a feat for an American
who's used all his life
to the tune of the Fizzing Drink
which is served up in American bars
and given into the name of beer.
The girth which exists between
that kind of beer and all,
it's summed up in a conversation,
a three-corner conversation,
Jim and I were having a new fan
at the Coventry,
and this chap is a keen member of camera
in the campaign for AOL,
and he's describing a beer he's got
in a pub which he's recommending,
and he started off describing this pint,
he said it was a bit sour,
lukewarm,
he had this a pancake, perfect!
And Jim,
he knew enough to agree with him
because he hadn't liked
learned to appreciate our kind of beer,
and
I mean, he understood through that
a dedicated boozer
isn't put off a drink just because
it doesn't taste very nice,
and sometimes we have to force ourselves,
and it's quite often in my life
things I might enjoy myself
and going through hell,
and I don't want to run over time
on perhaps a lot of trivial aspects
of what we were talking about this evening,
but I got one fine beer store about Jim
and it goes back to the time
two years ago when four
SCF riders were commissioned
by the Arts Council of Great Britain
to do a week-long tour of the Northeast,
giving time to the people
and folks,
and Mark Adelard was one who was there,
and then one or two nights in that week
Mark and I put away quite a lot of beer
and other drinks,
and we were further enough,
the organizers of that,
otherwise very good week,
had made the gasky error
of putting it into a Tampant Hotel,
and the lady who ran it
was a well-appearance chemical type,
and Mark and I
arrived home one night about two,
one morning about two,
and we had forgotten our keys,
and I remember very well that last walk up to the hotel,
because we tipped into and against each other at every step,
and it was strange this sequence bumping in detail,
which went on the whole way along that street,
but we couldn't help it.
We got to the hotel,
and one of these places made up of
what had formerly been a role of private houses,
all joined together,
and all the entrances seated up tight,
except the one which was first used to the hotel,
and Mark and I hadn't our keys,
but we tried all the other doors,
any of which hadn't been open for years,
but we didn't have the faces
later on in the pub or the hotel,
and finally had to move to Gore,
and she came out in her nightgown
and pulled us off very, very severely,
so that was a good time that week,
but it was hard, and she wasn't going to put up with people who drank a lot,
because they're having like that in her premises.
And the next day,
that was the fourth day of the week,
Jim was arriving,
and I was told into the owner of the hotel,
Arkham and Lobby, and Jim,
he decided to go into part two of the telling off,
and to really go on and on,
but she didn't like the losers,
and this is a tempered heart,
and then just that moment Jim came into the hall,
and he was bit tired,
he had travelled up from London,
and he was wearing a black coat
and a black pole neck shirt,
and his fur hat pulled down,
and he looked remarkably aesthetic,
and the aunt lady looked at him and said,
is this Mr. Brish?
I said yes, that's Mr. Brish,
and said, is he a minister?
I said no,
but he has written books with the outlawedliest religion,
and I just lit up with this auntie,
bashed across the lobby,
and said, Mr. Brish, come with me,
and I'll get you a key,
and she went to Bathway,
and he put her hands up and said,
can you get a drink here anywhere?
I said, can you, there are not even one of us,
and that's a sad and lonely aspect of Jim's character.
I appreciate all of our suggestions much,
but it's been covered very adequately by other speakers,
so I'll stand by, thank you.
I'm not going to go to the end and listen to James Fish himself.
In 1959, he won for the first time with Hugo,
the supreme accolade in the science fiction world,
and the following year, 1960,
he was invited to be guest of honor
at the Science Fiction Convention of Pittsburgh,
Pippcom, 1960,
and happily, a recording was made there
and it is guest of honor speech,
and here are a few brief extracts from it.